MOTIVATION and SYNOPSIS

Under the umbrella of ICFEM 2009 in Rio de Janeiro, Brasil, 
we will hold an International Workshop on Formal Methods 
plus Agile Methods in Software Engineering (including 
embedded Software + Hardware Systems).

Formal Methods (FM) and Agile Methods (AM) are two different 
(and rather orthogonal) answers to the Software Crisis which 
is typically characterised by both error-prone and slow software 
development processes:

    * Whereas FM has by-and-large focussed its attention on 
the issue of software correctness, thereby mostly ignoring 
questions of development speed,
    * AM is by-and-large concerned about the issue of 
development speed (a.k.a. "time to market"), thereby mostly 
ignoring the questions of formal soundness and formal correctness.

Our workshop FM+AM'09 aims at bringing these orthogonal 
viewpoints together and seeks original papers with new 
ideas about making formal software developments faster, 
and rapid software development methods more formally sound, 
in all phases of the software development cycle. (In this 
context the term "formal" is understood as explained by FME.) 
"Automation" might be a keyword hinting into the right direction, 
but this shall not at all exclude alternative creative solutions.

RELATED WORK:

A topically related event was the IFIP workshop on Balancing 
Agility and Formalism in Software Engineering (October 2007), 
published as LNCS 5082 by Springer-Verlag (December 2008). 

A brand-new paper about Formal and Agile Methods has just 
been published in the September 2009 issue of IEEE Computer. 
The publication details are as follows:

Sue Black, Paul P. Boca, Jonathan P. Bowen, Jason Gorman, 
Mike Hinchey, "Formal versus Agile: Survival of the Fittest?", 
pp. 37-45, IEEE Computer, Vol. 42, No. 9, September 2009.

>>The potential for combining agile and formal methods holds 
promise. Although it might not always be an easy partnership, 
it will succeed if it can foster a fruitful interchange of 
expertise between the two communities.<<
